Stm documentation and cleanup of code (#440)
iotaledger/stronghold.rs: stm/README.md

# STM 

This crate contains different implementation to have a concurrency in Stronghold.

> Two approaches are implemented: Read-Log-Update (RLU) and Transactional Locking 2 (TL2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This crate contains two different implementations to have a concurrency in Stronghold.
We have implemented two approaches:

* [Transactional Locking 2 (TL2)](#software-transactional-memory-stm-with-tl2).
* [Read-Log-Update (RLU)](#read-log-update) 
```

### Software Transactional Memory (STM) with TL2

~In an STM based system all objects having mutable state are transactional, the behavior on the objects are transparently using the underlying system.
This allows to isolate guarded memory from being exposed at runtime.
Transactions are always safe; internal conflicts are rolled back automatically and retried until the transaction succeeds.
Operations on mutable memory are composable.
Since only write operations actually change the object, this operation must be communicated to the other threads.
Recent work describes multiple approaches, where we consider blocking / retrying other transaction the most viable approach to ensure data consistency.
If the transaction has been finished, while having all read operations validated, the resulting work is committed to the actual object.
Other threads operating on the same object, never see the changes done to this object.

> The STM described here, uses a lazy approach in rolling back a transaction An STM can also be described as an optimistic locking approach: Work on memory is considered safe until a conflict occurs, the transaction can be safely rolled back and retried.~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~In an STM-based system, where all objects with a mutable state are transactional, the behavior of the objects is transparent using the underlying system. This isolates guarded memory, keeping it from being exposed at runtime. Transactions are always safe; internal conflicts are rolled back automatically and retried until the transaction succeeds. Operations on mutable memory are composable. Since only write operations can change the object, these operations must be communicated to the other threads.

Recent work describes multiple approaches, where we consider blocking or retrying other transactions. This is the most viable approach to ensure data consistency. The resulting work is committed to the actual object if the transaction is finished while having all read operations validated; other threads operating on the same object never see the changes done to this object.

The STM described here uses a lazy approach in rolling back a transaction. An STM can also be described as an optimistic locking approach: work on memory is considered safe until a conflict occurs, and the transaction can be safely rolled back and retried.~
```

I assume it's intentional, but just in case, this has a strike-through.

We chose to implement the TL2 implementation of STM which implementation details can be found in [[1]](https://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.90.811&rank=4&q=various%20cross%20version%20operation&osm=&ossid=).

> Improvements and tests that have been applied to TL2 are presented in [[2]](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/220854689_Testing_patterns_for_software_transactional_memory_engines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We chose to implement the TL2 implementation of STM. You can find the implementation details in the [Transactional Locking II (2006) paper](https://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.90.811&rank=4&q=various%20cross%20version%20operation&osm=&ossid=).
The improvements and tests that have been applied to TL2 are presented in [Testing patterns for software transactional memory engines paper](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/220854689_Testing_patterns_for_software_transactional_memory_engines).
```

#### Current flaws 
- Variables that can cloned and shared between thread are classified into the enum `SharedValue` 
  - this is a bit ugly since we need to import types of Stronghold into this crate to use our STM implementation
  - we tried to do a generic implementation using trait object (shared types needs to implement a trait to be used in STM)
    but we were not successful. This was mostly due to the fact that shared variable needed to implement `Clone: Sized` for STM
    but since they are trait objects they also need to implement `!Sized`. Implementation of both is incompatible.

> - This is slow, tests on Stronghold show most of the time going single-treaded was faster than multi-threaded (x10)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Variables that can be cloned and shared between threads are classified into the enum `SharedValue.`
  - This is not optimal since we need to import types of Stronghold into this crate to use our STM implementation.
  - We tried to do a generic implementation using trait object (shared types need to implement a trait to be used in STM)
    but we were not successful. This was mostly because the shared variable needed to implement `Clone: Sized` for STM
    , but since they are trait objects, they also need to implement `!Sized`. Implementing both is incompatible.
- This is slow. Tests on Stronghold show most of the time going single-threaded was faster than multi-threaded (x10).
```

### Read-Log-Update

RLU is an approach similar to STM with the main difference that transactions are never rolled back but blocked until they can be committed to produce a consistent state.

> Implementation details of RLU can be found in [[1]](https://sigops.org/s/conferences/sosp/2015/current/2015-Monterey/printable/077-matveev.pdf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RLU is an approach similar to STM, with the main difference being that transactions are never rolled back but blocked until they can be committed, producing a consistent state.
You can find Implementation details of RLU in the [Read-Log-Update paper](https://sigops.org/s/conferences/sosp/2015/current/2015-Monterey/printable/077-matveev.pdf).
```

#### Current flaws 

> - Data race and deadlocks occur in the tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Data races and deadlocks occur in the tests.
```

### Features

[x] - multiple concurrent reads and writes
[x] - lock free integration

> [x] - (optional) protected memory handling integrated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[x] - Multiple concurrent reads and writes.
[x] - Lock free integration.
[x] - (optional) Protected memory handling integrated.
```

# Open Issues / Todo

- Feature gated secured memory 
- RLU is global context and must be accessible as mutable from many threads, as new contexts can be spawned any time

> - check if try_lock needs to return a full copy for the log, or if the change has to be delayed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Feature-gated secured memory.
- RLU is a global context and must be accessible as mutable from many threads, as new contexts can be spawned anytime.
- Check if `try_lock` needs to return a full copy for the log or if the change has to be delayed.
```
